# Fraud-detection-system-based-on-pattern-matching

With businesses moving online, fraud and abuse in online systems is constantly increasing as well. Traditionally, rule-based fraud detection systems are used to combat online fraud, but these rely on a static set of rules created by human experts. This project uses machine learning to create models for fraud detection that are dynamic, self-improving and maintainable. Importantly, they can scale with the online business.

The project used to train both a supervised and an unsupervised machine learning models, which are then deployed. If you have labels for your data, for example if some of the transactions have been annotated as fraudulent and some as legitimate, then you can train a supervised learning model to learn to discern the two classes. The supervised model training process also handles the common issue of working with highly imbalanced data in fraud detection problems. The project addresses this issue into two ways by 1) implementing data upsampling using the "imbalanced-learn" package, and 2) using scale position weight to control the balance of positive and negative weights. 
If you don't have labelled data or if you want to augment your supervised model predictions with an anomaly score from an unsupervised model, then the project also trains a RandomCutForest model. The RandomCutForest algorithm is trained on the entire dataset, without labels, and takes advantage of the highly imbalanced nature of fraud datasets, to predict higher anomaly scores for the fraudulent transactions in the dataset. The dataset contains credit card transactions from European cardholders in 2013. As is common in fraud detection, it is highly unbalanced, with 492 fraudulent transactions out of the 284,807 total transactions. The dataset contains only numerical features, because the original features have been transformed for confidentiality using PCA. As a result, the dataset contains 28 PCA components, and two features that haven't been transformed, Amount and Time. Amount refers to the transaction amount, and Time is the seconds elapsed between any transaction in the data and the first transaction.
